                                                                  Statement of Purpose
                                                           Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science
                                                                       Jiwei Ma

                        “The most beautiful thing we can experience is the Mysterious.”      - Albert Einstein 

    With the fourth industrial revolution emerged from horizon and equipped with technological advancements in Artificial Intelligence, 
Internet of Things, 5G Communication and more, it has been my most sincere aspiration to become a computer scientist in this new exciting 
era full of opportunities powered by technologies. Specifically, I have been longing to continue advanced study in the field of Artificial Intelligence, 
and after graduation, I would like to become an active researcher and developer in this scientific field of paramount importance.

    I went to the Computer Science and Technology Department, Dalian University of Foreign Languages in 2016. And based on my outstanding performance 
in senior high school and the competitive National College Entrance Examination, I was named into the Experimental Class, which is an advanced class 
specially designed from highly potential and gifted students. During my school years, it gradually came to my realization that in this new information 
technology age, the progress of society not only requires a myriad of technological talents, but also cries for in-depth research and profound applications 
of technologies into various aspects of societal and industrial scenarios, which will revolutionize the way people live and in the end serve mankind for 
its better well beings. In the process of learning all these, I found it intriguing, challenging, and most importantly, fulfilling, to keep pace with the 
latest technologies. I believe it is something that is worth devoting my career for.

    There is no better way to prepare myself for this than rolling up my sleeves and getting down to learn it through focused studies. During my undergraduate study,
I completed a total of 63 courses. The academic courses I took included:
computer algorithms				data structure 
calculus and algebra				advanced mathematics
object-oriented programming		network and database
among many others. Taking Data Structure as an example, through comprehensive study and many class projects, it became apparent to me that data structure is 
at the core of efficient and high-performance software systems. I learned that the difficulties of system implementation and qualities of system construction
heavily depend on data structure choices. Most of the implementations require iterations of build-measure-learn and instantiation-abstraction of data structures.
I also put what I learned into practice when I was designing games of Tetris and Snake, where high-level abstraction of data structures and operations significantly
improved the design and implementation of the entire systems. As an acknowledgement of my great work at school, I was granted the Outstanding Student Scholarship 
(Grade 3) in 2017.

    In terms of hands-on programming, I became proficient in C++, Java and Python. I participated in the Accenture Cup Software Design Competition and won the third 
prize among about one thousand contestants.

    In addition to university classes, I also took various online courses, especially in artificial-intelligence-related topics. For example, I’ve taken:
 	Andrew Ng's Machine Learning class on Coursera
where I’ve indulged myself in the wealth of knowledge of neural networks, genetic algorithms, support vector machines, and natural language processing etc. 
It truly excites me to see how machine learning and artificial intelligence have progressed during the three waves of innovations in the past four decades, 
and how big data, powerful computing, and more complex and capable models and algorithms have made great leap forward possible in this field in recent years.
In the meantime, artificial intelligence progress remains by and large in perception intelligence, or “narrow” AI. It is still quite a challenge to move to 
general AI, especially in terms of machine intelligence in cognition, reasoning, planning and common sense. Or, as Prof. Song-Chun Zhu of UCLA puts it: how 
to move from “big-data-small-task” to “small-data-big-task”. It’s nothing short of spectacular to achieve these goals, and I hope to take part in this new 
and most promising science.

    Besides academic studies, I have also enriched my spare time with sports, music and reading. I often participate in various sport competitions organized 
by the school, and I always find great music and books relaxing and recharging. I am also a member of the Life Department of the Student Union of our school. 
This engagement has refined my inter-personal and communication skills, and in the meantime, has taught me to honor the collective consciousness and be responsible 
to serve the collective. These experiences have turned excellence into a habit in my personal and academic growth.
    
    This statement captures my true feelings. To me, original thoughts and creative works always reveal their own beauty and deeply attract me. This appreciation has
supported me through recent years of hard work, and eventually will lead me to reach my long-term career goal. I bring along a strong grasp of fundamental knowledge
and skills, an earnest attitude toward the magic of computer science and technology and a zest for challenges. I would like to take with me, in addition to further 
knowledge and training in my fields of interest, a network of strong and lasting relationship with my teachers and fellow students. I hope that my background and 
qualification are found suitable in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science. Should I be accepted to your program, I will dedicate myself to becoming an 
outstanding member of your community and a long-term credit to your institution. 

   Thank you for your consideration.
